so we were sort of focused on looking at
some of the maintainer ship issues of
the like perpetually growing number of
modules and the growing community and
small number of people who are
maintainer and trying to ease some of
that burden we're focused more
particularly on the JavaScript side of
things down on the NGO side of things
partially because this comes out of an
issue that was posted focused on the
JavaScript side partially also because
nobody was that focused on ghosts that
showed up so that's the big caveat for
all of this and there's I think it's is
it ipfs notes 273 that's the that's the
issue that this comes off of and these
super rough notes are posted back there
and it's my job later today to post a
much more nicely written version but so
here's sort of our new work plan and
list of things that we thought was
important to do and who needs to do them
that we came up with some are fairly
vague and some are very specific so one
thing that we think is really important
right off the bat is that what's already
happening in jail and which is that
every module needs to have a clear
maintainer or
owner in one of the first things that
maintainer owner needs to do is pick a
reasonable level of code coverage which
is less than a hundred percent but it
does need to be something that they
think is a reasonable level to make sure
to maintain and make sure to use the
coverage tools that now all modules are
running in CI not everybody knows how to
use and monitor those and we need to do
that and make sure that we're
maintaining that reasonable level the
next thing that kind of needs to happen
is that we need to start doing automated
releases for a lot of modules we have
serious issues about our capability to
do that for some of the bigger ones like
JSI PFS as a whole so we're going to
start doing it ASAP with the smaller
ones like jeaious repo or ones like that
or like multi address or
- and then sort of scale it up from
there
and the next thing is that Michael is
going to start working on are actually
already working on trying to document a
project lifecycle because we think there
are a large number of practices that are
really important to ease maintain ership
as projects mature that are anti helpful
when projects are really young and so
that lifecycle the part of its goal is
to sort of define that and define how we
make those transitions and part of that
is so kind of defining what are those
requirements at a given point in a
projects maturity level another part of
that is making sure projects live in the
right place we have a huge number of
repos that sit in ipfs org or the
shipyard org that kind of just sit empty
or are maybe deprecated or dead and an
important practice we can do to ease
burdens is make sure that those don't
live in those sort of more official
places until something like jeaious ipfs
or go at pathos or whatever it is
actively depending on them in part of
the pull request to add that dependency
is the movement of that experimental
repo from your personal place or
whatever into the ipfs org or into the
shipyard org there are some exceptions
like when we're extracting say go IP NS
out of go where it's fairly solid
straight from the get-go but for most
other things we need to be clear about
not putting it in a very official place
straight off the bat because that
creates burdens that we should shouldn't
be enduring also adding a lot of
automatic checking we have some four
linting but we don't have some that
where we have something that's not
running everywhere for code quality and
another really important thing for
maintainability is clear documentation
and so we're looking into how on the
JavaScript side we can test to ensure
that there's comments for everything
that is exported not necessarily that
we're going to generate those Docs but
ensuring that somebody is writing them
in thinking about them from day one
because having that clear documentation
for something really immature can create
an impression that it's more solid than
it is but we need somebody to
writing and thinking about those docs to
that when it flips over to a more mature
state it's not like there's this giant
pile of work that is undone and then
gets poorly done and then there's some
other things that are very Jaya specific
sort of we need to have a unified story
around how we deal with a sink type
stuff so that's single call-and-response
stuff like call backs versus promises
versus async/await and also longer
things like stream sources pool streams
versus async generators part of the
issue is not that we support all of
those things and it's important to
continue supporting all those things at
the top level like in the JSI PFS api
but for all the sub modules and subpages
we should pick one and not worry about
those ones exposing an interface that's
cross-compatible everywhere we just need
to ease the burden and this is the way
everything works internally and even
externally for those sub packages that
aren't the main public package and
there's a few more of these things more
using github checks and more buffs for
things using branch protection
everywhere always on all repos in
looking at on the oh and the other
really big thing is we have these two
contributor guides in community one of
which is long and the other of which is
unbelievably long names contributors too
which is very confusing to lots of
people
we need to rename that to maintainer or
committers or more involved you know
sort of team members and for the first
one which is still long we need it needs
the TLDR section at the top that just
says do this do this do this and then
all the why explanation that it's got
blue that few other things look at the
issue for all the more details but those
are the critical things we thought were
important to do to increase
maintainability
[Applause]